docs: add Rule Extensions GA documentation (#1446)
snyk/user-docs: scan-fix-and-prevent/scan-with-snyk/snyk-code/rule-extensions/configure-rule-extensions.md

> # Configure Rule Extensions

Reviewer: nit: Do we also need to add how to access this in the Snyk Shine UI as well?
The current format is for the old UI. For the new Snyk Shine UI, this would be under `Group settings`/`Snyk Code`

<img width="645" height="678" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e4803c82-5734-4113-b1bb-78e7e9be0f75" />

# Configure Rule Extensions

Rule Extensions are managed at the **Group** level in the Snyk Web UI, under **Group settings → Snyk Code**. You need the [UI access permissions](rule-extensions-permissions.md#permissions-for-ui-access) to reach these screens.

<figure><img src="../../../.gitbook/assets/rule_extensions_shine_group_settings.png" alt="Rule Extensions under Group settings, Snyk Code in the Snyk Web UI"><figcaption>Rule Extensions in Group settings → Snyk Code</figcaption></figure>

> ## Create rule extension

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Create a Rule Extension
```

Add a custom sanitizer to an existing Snyk Code rule.

1. Log in to the Snyk Web UI and select your [Group](https://docs.snyk.io/snyk-admin/groups-and-organizations).

> 2. Navigate to **Group settings → Snyk Code → Rule extensions**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Navigate to **Group settings → Snyk Code → Rule Extensions**.
```

> 3.  Select **Create sanitizer** and define functional attributes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3.  Click **Create sanitizer** and define the functional attributes:
```

    1. **Sanitizer**: Provide the fully qualified name (FQN). Need help identifying your FQN? See the [FQN identification guide](identify-your-sanitizers-fqn.md).

>     2. **Rule key**: Select one or more rules you want this extension to apply to. This is a Rule key as specified in the [Supported rules](supported-rules.md) page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    2. **Rule key**: Select one or more rules you want this extension to apply to. This is the rule key specified on the [Supported rules](supported-rules.md) page.
```

    3. **Sanitization type**: Select one of the four ways your function sanitizes data. For more details, see [Custom sanitizers](custom-sanitizers.md).

    <figure><img src="../../../.gitbook/assets/rule_extensions_add_sanitizer.png" alt="Add sanitizer as a rule extension in Snyk Code" width="378"><figcaption><p>Add sanitizer as a rule extension in Snyk Code</p></figcaption></figure>
4. Define the rule extension outline attributes:

>    1. **Scope**: Choose if you want to apply the rule extension to the entire Group, or a subset of Organizations within the Group.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   1. **Scope**: Choose whether to apply the rule extension to the entire Group or to a subset of Organizations within the Group.
```

   2. **Description** (Optional): Add a short description of what the rule extension does.
   3. **Status**: Specifies how the rule extension is treated after you save it:

>       * **Published**: The rule extension is live and picked up by the next test.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      * **Published**: The rule extension is live; Snyk applies it starting with the next test.
```

>       * **Draft**: The extension is not included in any tests after it has been saved. Use this when collaborating with others for review purposes. After the draft stage is done, you can edit the status and publish the rule extension.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      * **Draft**: Snyk excludes the Rule Extension from tests after you save it. Use this when collaborating with others for review. Once review is complete, change the status to publish it.
```

> 5. Select **Save** to save your Rule Extension.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Click **Save**.
```

> ## Update rule extension

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Update a Rule Extension
```

> You can update attributes such as sanitization type, scope, description, or status. Sanitizing functions and the rule extension name are not editable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can update attributes such as sanitization type, scope, description, or status. The sanitizer, the rule selections, and the Rule Extension name are not editable.
```

1. Log in to the Snyk Web UI and select your [Group](https://docs.snyk.io/snyk-admin/groups-and-organizations).

> 2. Navigate to **Rule extensions**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Navigate to **Rule Extensions**.
```

3. Select the horizontal ellipsis and then select **Edit**.

> 4. Select **Save** to save your Rule Extension.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Click **Save**.
```

> ## Delete rule extension

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Delete a Rule Extension
```

> After deletion, the rule extension is deleted and tests ‌are no longer picking it up.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you delete a Rule Extension, tests no longer pick it up.
```

1. Log in to the Snyk Web UI and select your [Group](https://docs.snyk.io/snyk-admin/groups-and-organizations).

> 2. Navigate to **Rule extensions**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Navigate to **Rule Extensions**.
```

3. Select the horizontal ellipsis and then select **Delete**.

> 4. Confirm your action to delete the Rule Extension.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Confirm the deletion.
```
